PDF of Final Edits: https://drive.google.com/file/d/1iTG93v0_PBWX2H-HNpDCLq9OkUoq3pbY/view?usp=sharing 

I chose my subject matter initially because I really wanted to play around with space. However, I do not have a lens or a camera that is strong enough to take pictures of the space, so I had to use NASA as a crutch. A while ago, my friend showed me this site that NASA created for the Hubble Telescope’s 30th anniversary. The website would basically take in a month and a date and then match it up with a photo that the telescope had taken on that date. 

For the dates that I chose, I looked up the world news for each month from January to June in 2020. I chose this year because I feel like it has been one of the most crazy years that I have seen in my life. I chose the events based on how much it impacted me. Whether that meant unprecedented events or the amount of people that were injured or died at the event. 

After matching up the images with the event dates, I used photoshopped and overlaid the images. I played around with the blending options and the opacity. Google was my best friend during this final. 

Finally, I wanted to edit these images with code but I wanted to stick with the message of the beauty of space and the sadness of death. I was looking through different people who have played around with mixel manipulation and fell upon someone's pixelation template (shoutout to Anushka Jadwani on Stack Overflow). I edited her code and changed up the pixel size and played around with which one would look the best with the photos. 

In the end, the pixelation effect and the combination of the photos from the events with the NASA pictures, it created this sort of video game effect. It looked like there was a soldier in space, fighting against the evil aliens. In the April photo, the heart from the memorial looks like it is made from the stars. I think this combination of the two photos from opposite sides of the spectrum, there is a beauty to the final edits. I’m really shocked at how they turned out and definitely was not what I expected. 

I do wish that I had taken the photos or at least some of the photos but I think it did turn out better with the telescope photos. I chose this method because I wanted to bring two contrasts and turn them into something beautiful. I think the overall message that I was trying to send with the project is how space is ever expanding and yet our earth is so small. There is so much negative news that is happening but that should not outweigh the importance of each event. Something that was always important to my family was watching the Olympics. However, this year, because of COVID-19, it was postponed. Now, I have not been alive long enough to witness many Olympics, but I know that for as long as it has been happening, postponing has never happened before. March 22nd was the date for the official announcement of its postponement and it happened that the photo from the Hubble telescope were the rings of Saturn, which perfectly fits with the rings of the Olympics. I think these important events might not shine through with people who do not care about the news, but the beauty of the objects in space might add to the attention of the events. 
