For this project, I continued on with the pixel manipulation project that I did with the theme of symmetrical architecture. I separated it into two different groups, pictures that are more focused on the shape of the architecture and pictures that focused on the colors and design of the architectures. With all of the images, I used the glitch effect and altered it by switching the affected area placement and the colors. Before I added the code to the images, I changed the images to a .txt file and ran it through python to add the original source image file name number (for ex. IMG_9149) to each line of the code in the .txt file. Then I converted it to a .raw file and opened it up in Photoshop. Afterwards, I took the corresponding image and I layered on the .raw file of the text and 50% opacity. So in all of the images, you can make out the pixels in the background. 

For the shape and line group, I took three images that had lots of straight vertical and horizontal lines in the architecture and the image. With these three images, I wanted to challenge the focus of the image and change it with lines that lead in different directions. With the Medici image, it had very straight lines with short little horizontal lines in the middle. For his process, I used the glitch placement for the entire canvas. For the code that I used for the glitch effect, the glitch pixel color is chosen by the first pixel on the left and it stretches across. In this image, the short horizontal lines that are on the beams, it is stretched across in a way where it makes it seem like it could look like an Egyptian tomb rather than the interior of the building. For the La Sagrada Familia image, I wanted the same effect of the sublime feeling that visitors get when they step inside. With the glitch, it almost seems like the sunlight is shining across in an ethereal way. I also only affected approximately 70% of the canvas because I wanted the top of the interior to still be visible because the design is more circular rather than linear so it contrasted with the glitch lines. Lastly the Uffizi image was very monotone in color so I wanted to alter the lines and color at the same time. There are both vertical and horizontal lines which makes the original image seem fragmented. 

For the three color focused images, I chose one that was very light in color, one very dark in color, and one that is extremely colorful and saturated. I also used the same glitch effect for all three images but I layered on three opaque colored rectangles in order to change the glitch color. As mentioned before, the glitch pixel color is chosen by the first pixel on the left hand side so I had to place the rectangle to touch the Y-axis in order to see a changed effect. You can see that in the rectangle, it changes that color of the glitch. When choosing the colors of the rectangles, I made it to contrast the most prominent color in the image or I made it so compliment the color. For example, in the Winter image, I chose purple because the main color was a gold yellow kind of color. For some of the versions that I created, it looked too similarly to the Warriors so I had to change it up to show more colors. 


final photos PDF: https://drive.google.com/file/d/15oiXCtzPutec9kR0Y_t3sIP0_9Eqn2qh/view?usp=sharing 

Github link: https://github.com/amc1347/comp-photo-midterm/tree/master/p5/empty-example

All sources and templates are linked inside the javascript files on the top.
